<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN"
	"http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<title>edit - example</title>

	<link href="/style/style.css" media="screen" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	<link href="./style/demo.css" media="screen" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />

</head>

<body>

<!-- content -->
<div id="tx-content" class="demo">

	<!-- edit view -->
	<div class="tx-edit">
		<div class="tx-edit-content">
			<form action="" method="post">
				<fieldset>
					<ol>
						<li class="tx-line"><label>Original format</label>
							<div>jpg</div></li>
						
						<li class="tx-line"><label>Size</label>
							<div>645 x 345 px (original size) <a href="">[view]</a><br />
							512 x 257 px <a href="">[view]</a></div>
						</li>
						
						<li class="tx-line"><label>Replace Image</label>
							<input type="file" size="30" /></li>
						
						<li><label>Credit</label>
							<input size="30" type="text" value="" /></li>
						
						<li><label>Licence type</label>
							<select>
								<option value="0">please select</option>
								<option value="1" selected="selected">Royality Fee</option>
								<option value="2">Open Photo</option>
								<option value="3">Self made with natel</option>
							</select></li>
						
						<li class="tx-line"><label>Caption</label>
							<input size="30" type="text" value="" /></li>
						
						<li class="tx-line"><label>Alternative description</label>
							<textarea cols="40" rows="3"></textarea></li>
						
						<li><label>Radio</label>
							<input type="radio" name="radio1" value="" /> Yes <input type="radio" name="radio1" value="" /> No <input type="radio" name="radio1" value="" /> Maybe</li>	
						
						<li><label>Checkbox</label>
							<input type="checkbox" value="" /> Yes <input type="checkbox" value="" /> No <input type="checkbox" value="" /> Maybe</li>	
					</ol>
				</fieldset>
			</form>
		</div>
	


	<div id="demo">
		<h3>Description</h3>
		
			In the tx-content a &lt;div> with class<b>tx-edit</b> is created. Within <strong>div.tx-edit</strong> a <strong>div.tx-edit-content</strong> is added.
			<br/>
			<br/>
			<strong>li.tx-line</strong> draws a line under the &lt;li> element.
	
			<br/>
			<br/>
			The current example has no ids or names defined, if necessary they have to be defined contextually.
			<br/>

			<strong>div.tx-edit</strong> is the main container for the edit view. If no class is defined on the <strong>div.tx-edit</strong> element the edit view has 100% width. 
			<br/>
			The classes <strong>.tx-show-panel</strong>, <strong>.tx-hide-panel</strong> and <strong>.tx-halfwidth-right</strong> define the position of the edit view.
			<br/>
			<br/>
            
			<strong>.tx-show-panel</strong>: position with a panel on the left side.<br/>
			<strong>.tx-hide-panel</strong>: position with a panel on the left side, hidden.<br/>
			<strong>.tx-halfwidth-right</strong>: position on the right, 50% width.<br/>
			<br/>
			<br/>            

			<h3>Example code</h3>
		
			<pre>
&lt;div class="tx-edit-content"&gt;
	&lt;form action="" method="post"&gt;
		&lt;fieldset&gt;
			&lt;ol&gt;
				&lt;li class="tx-line"&gt;&lt;label&gt;Original format&lt;/label&gt;
					&lt;div&gt;jpg&lt;/div&gt;&lt;/li&gt;
				
				&lt;li class="tx-line"&gt;&lt;label&gt;Size&lt;/label&gt;
					&lt;div&gt;645 x 345 px (original size) &lt;a href=""&gt;[view]&lt;/a&gt;&lt;br /&gt;
					512 x 257 px &lt;a href=""&gt;[view]&lt;/a&gt;&lt;/div&gt;
				&lt;/li&gt;
				
				&lt;li class="tx-line"&gt;&lt;label&gt;Replace Image&lt;/label&gt;
					&lt;input type="file" size="30" /&gt;&lt;/li&gt;
				
				&lt;li&gt;&lt;label&gt;Credit&lt;/label&gt;
					&lt;input size="30" type="text" value="" /&gt;&lt;/li&gt;
				
				&lt;li&gt;&lt;label&gt;Licence type&lt;/label&gt;
					&lt;select&gt;
						&lt;option value="0"&gt;please select&lt;/option&gt;
						&lt;option value="1" selected="selected"&gt;Royality Fee&lt;/option&gt;
						&lt;option value="2"&gt;Open Photo&lt;/option&gt;
						&lt;option value="3"&gt;Self made with natel&lt;/option&gt;
					&lt;/select&gt;&lt;/li&gt;
				
				&lt;li class="tx-line"&gt;&lt;label&gt;Caption&lt;/label&gt;
					&lt;input size="30" type="text" value="" /&gt;&lt;/li&gt;
				
				&lt;li class="tx-line"&gt;&lt;label&gt;Alternative description&lt;/label&gt;
					&lt;textarea cols="40" rows="3"&gt;&lt;/textarea&gt;&lt;/li&gt;
				
				&lt;li&gt;&lt;label&gt;Radio&lt;/label&gt;
					&lt;input type="radio" name="radio1" value="" /&gt; Yes &lt;input type="radio" name="radio1" value="" /&gt; No &lt;input type="radio" name="radio1" value="" /&gt; Maybe&lt;/li&gt;	
				
				&lt;li&gt;&lt;label&gt;Checkbox&lt;/label&gt;
					&lt;input type="checkbox" value="" /&gt; Yes &lt;input type="checkbox" value="" /&gt; No &lt;input type="checkbox" value="" /&gt; Maybe&lt;/li&gt;	
			&lt;/ol&gt;
		&lt;/fieldset&gt;
	&lt;/form&gt;
&lt;/div&gt;
			</pre>
		</div>
	</div>	
</div>
<!-- // content -->


</body>
</html>

