<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!--
/*
 * Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
 * or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
 * distributed with this work for additional information
 * regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
 * to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
 * "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
 * with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at
 *
 *   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
 *
 * Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
 * software distributed under the License is distributed on an
 * "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
 * KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
 * specific language governing permissions and limitations
 * under the License.
 */
-->
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en-us">
	<head>
		<title>Usage: How to use the Account Control Panel</title>
	</head>
	<body>
		<h1>Usage: How to use the Account Control Panel</h1>
		<p>Author: Tsuyoshi Ito - clerezza.org</p>
		<p>Date: January 27, 2009</p>
		<h2 id="list">1. List installed bundles</h2>
		<p>
			Each user can upload and install bundles into the platform. Users and permissions can be created via <a href="http://localhost:8282/admin/user-manager" target="_blank">http://localhost:8282/admin/user-manager</a> and <a href="http://localhost:8282/admin/role-manager" target="_blank">http://localhost:8282/admin/role-manager</a>. <br />
			Enter the following URL: <a href="http://localhost:8282/user/admin/control-panel" target="_blank">http://localhost:8282/user/admin/control-panel</a> to list all bundles from the user "admin" (when asked to authenticate use username "admin" and password "admin). If you want to list installed bundles from another user, replace "admin" in the URL with the username of the other user.
		</p>
		<h2 id="install">2. Install a bundle</h2>
		<p>
            You can upload a bundle by clicking on the link <a href="http://localhost:8282/user/admin/control-panel/install-bundle-form">Install Bundle</a> on <a href="http://localhost:8282/user/admin/control-panel" target="_blank">http://localhost:8282/user/admin/control-panel</a>. Enter the URL of your bundle (e.g. Location: http://localhost/mybundle-1.0.jar) and click on the button "install". The uploaded and installed bundles have the same permission as you have. 
        </p>
		<h2 id="start">3. Start, Stop and Uninstall a bundle</h2>
        <p>
            A user can start, stop and  uninstall a bundle on <a href="http://localhost:8282/user/admin/control-panel" target="_blank">http://localhost:8282/user/admin/control-panel</a>, whereas "admin" can be replaced by another username. Click on the appropriate button for start , stop or uninstall a bundle.
        </p>
        <p>
            That's all. Enjoy.
        </p>
    </body>
</html>

