<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN"
	"http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<title>overlay - example</title>

	<link href="/style/style.css" media="screen" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
    <link href="./style/demo.css" media="screen" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	<link href="/yui/container/assets/container-core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	<script src="/jquery/jquery-1.3.2.min.js" type="text/javascript"/>
	<script src="/yui/yahoo-dom-event/yahoo-dom-event.js" type="text/javascript"/>
	<script src="/yui/element/element-min.js" type="text/javascript"/>
	<script src="/yui/container/container-min.js" type="text/javascript"/>
	<script src="/yui/resize/resize-min.js" type="text/javascript"/>
	<script src="/yui/utilities/utilities.js" type="text/javascript"/>
	<script src="/scripts/overlay.js" type="text/javascript"/>
</head>

<body>


<!-- content -->
<div id="tx-content" class="demo">

	<div id="demo">
    	<h3>Description</h3>

       
		<h3>Overlay</h3>
		
        <div>
		The Overlay behave similarly to an OS window. Unlike true browser popup windows,
		the overlay is floating DHTML elements embedded directly within the page context.
		The Overlay is positioned above the flow of a page and is draggable, resizable and has a close button.
		The Overlay has a method show with arguments body, header, width and height, which renders the overlay.
		The body and the header can be html elements or text.
		The width (default value: 46em) and height (default value: 37em) can be defined absolutely or relatively.
		Furthermore the Overlay has a method close to destroy the overlay.
		<br/>
		<br/>
		<div style="display: none">
			<div id="myOverlayBody">body</div>
		</div>
		<div>
			<a href="#" onclick="Overlay.show($('#myOverlayBody'), 'header', '20em', '10em');">click here to add the overlay.</a> <br/>
		</div>
		<br/>
		<br/>


		The following css and scripts have to be included:
		<pre>
&lt;link href="/yui/container/assets/container-core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/&gt;
&lt;script src="/yui/yahoo-dom-event/yahoo-dom-event.js" type="text/javascript"/&gt;
&lt;script src="/yui/element/element-min.js" type="text/javascript"/&gt;
&lt;script src="/yui/container/container-min.js" type="text/javascript"/&gt;
&lt;script src="/yui/dragdrop/dragdrop-min.js" type="text/javascript"/&gt;
&lt;script src="/yui/resize/resize-min.js" type="text/javascript"/&gt;
&lt;script src="/yui/utilities/utilities.js" type="text/javascript"/&gt;
&lt;script src="/scripts/overlay.js" type="text/javascript"/&gt;
		</pre>
		<br/>
		<br/>
		e.g.
		<pre>
...
	&lt;body&gt;
	   &lt;div style="display: none">
			&lt;div id="myOverlayBody">body&lt;/div>
		&lt;/div>
	   &lt;div&gt;
		 &lt;a href="#" onclick="Overlay.show($('#myOverlayBody'), 'header', '20em', '10em');"&gt;click here to add the overlay &lt;/a&gt; &lt;br/&gt;
	   &lt;/div&gt;
	&lt;/body&gt;
...
		</pre>
		</div>
		
	</div>
</div>
<!-- // content -->
	
</body>
</html>

